It's no secret that cyber attacks and threats are on the rise.
However, here are some interesting stats that highlight
the importance of topics you'll learn during this course.
First, threats are on the rise.
According to The University of Maryland's research,
hackers execute an attack every 39 seconds or 2,244 times daily.
So basically, there are plenty of threats to go around and it never ends.
Even more concerning, is that you'll learn throughout the course that
hackers are not the only threat relevant to the cybersecurity industry.
Vulnerabilities also continue to grow and failing
to address them can lead to severe consequences.
In one case, 134 million credit cards were exposed.
That cost Heartland payment systems over
$145 million in compensation for fraud payments alone.
That doesn't include response costs,
operational costs, and other expenses.
The attackers in this case exploited
a known common vulnerability that analysts
have been talking about for years to carry out this attack.
Lastly, being able to detect and address issues through incident response is critical.
According to IBM, it takes an average of 206 days to
identify a breach and it takes about 314 days to contain a breach.
That means it takes almost a year to get a good handle on a security breach.
Also know that most attackers create a
backdoor so that they can keep coming back when they want,
as long as they are not detected.
So can you imagine an intruder hiding in your home undetected for 206 days?
That's essentially what this is like.
A real example of this can be seen in the major Marriot breach.
So in that case, 500 million customers dating back
to 2014 had their information compromised,
but it wasn't made public and addressed until about four years later in 2018.